

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic neurodegenerative disease that affects the central nervous system, mainly affecting the motor nervous system. Symptoms usually appear slowly over time, with the most obvious early symptoms being tremors, limb stiffness, decreased motor function, and gait abnormality, as well as cognitive and behavioral problems; Dementia is quite common among patients with severe conditions, with over one-third of cases also experiencing major depressive disorders and anxiety disorders. Other possible accompanying symptoms include perceptual, sleep, and emotional issues. The main motor symptoms caused by Parkinson's disease are collectively referred to as Parkinson's syndrome.
The cause of Parkinson's disease is currently unclear, but it is generally believed to be related to genetic and environmental factors. People with Parkinson's disease in their family are more likely to get the disease, and those who have been exposed to specific pesticides and have had head injuries are also at higher risk; But those who have a smoking habit and often drink coffee or tea have a lower risk. The main motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease are caused by the death of melanocytes in the midbrain, resulting in insufficient dopamine in the relevant brain regions of the patient. The cause of cell death is currently poorly understood, but it is known to be related to the process of neuronal protein composition of Lewy bodies. Typical Parkinson's disease is mainly diagnosed based on symptoms, and neuroimaging can also assist in ruling out the possibility of other diseases.
Parkinson's disease is currently incurable, and L-dopa is commonly used to treat initial symptoms. When the effect of L-dopa decreases, dopamine agonist is used in combination. As the course of the disease worsens, neurons will continue to be lost, so it is necessary to increase the drug dosage accordingly. However, when the dosage is first increased, there will be abnormal side effects such as involuntary tics. Dietary plans and rehabilitation have some effect on improving symptoms. For severe patients with ineffective medication, deep brain stimulation surgery in neurosurgery can be considered, which utilizes microelectrode discharge to reduce motor symptoms. As for Parkinson's disease with non motor related symptoms (such as patients with sleep disturbances or emotional problems), the treatment effect is usually poor.
In 2015, approximately 6.2 million people worldwide suffered from Parkinson's disease, resulting in 117000 deaths. Parkinson's disease usually occurs in people over the age of 60, with about 1% of elderly people suffering from the disease; Men are more likely to develop Parkinson's disease than women. If a patient develops Parkinson's disease before the age of 50, it is called early-onset Parkinson's disease. The expected lifespan after diagnosis of Parkinson's disease is about 7-15 years. This disease is named after British doctor James Parkinson, who published the book "An Essay on the Shaking Palsy" in 1817, which first detailed the symptoms of Parkinson's disease. His birthday, April 11th, is also designated as World Parkinson's Day, and community groups will hold public promotion activities on this day; Tulip is a symbol of Parkinson's disease. The condition of some famous patients has raised public attention to this disease, including Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping, actor Michael J. Fox, Olympic cyclist Davis Phinney, and professional boxer Muhammad Ali.
Commentary film

==Classification==
Parkinson's syndrome is a movement disorder characterized by several similar symptoms. In definition, symptoms must include bradykinesia (decreased autonomous movement, or decreased rate and flexibility of repetitive movements, such as spontaneous finger tapping), in addition to one or more of the following symptoms: lead pipe rigidity, cogwheel rigidity, static tremors, and postural instability. They can be classified into the following four types based on their causes:
#Primary or Idiopathic
#Secondary or acquired the day after tomorrow
#Hereditary
#Parkinson plus syndrome or multiple system degeneration
Parkinson's disease refers to the primary Parkinson's syndrome, which has no identifiable cause for the other three, and is also the most common type of Parkinson's syndrome. In recent years, several genes have been found to be directly associated with Parkinson's disease, which conflicts with the original definition based on spontaneous diseases. Therefore, genetic Parkinson's syndrome, which has a similar course to Parkinson's disease, is generally included in Parkinson's disease, and "familial Parkinson's disease" and "sporadic Parkinson's disease" are used to distinguish between genetic and truly unknown causes of Parkinson's syndrome.
Parkinson's disease is usually classified as a motor disorder, but it can also cause other non motor symptoms such as sensory disorders, cognitive difficulties, and sleep disorders. Parkinson's syndrome is an additional symptom in addition to primary Parkinson's disease, including multiple system degeneration, progressive paralysis of the optic nerve, degeneration of the basal ganglia of the cerebral cortex, and Lewandowski dementia.
In terms of pathophysiology, due to the accumulation of alpha synuclein in the form of Lewy body, Parkinson's disease is considered a synucleinopathy, which is completely different from the neurofibrillary tangles formed by the accumulation of Tau protein in Alzheimer's disease. However, there is overlap between synucleinopathy and tauopathy in clinical practice, and severe Parkinson's disease patients often exhibit typical symptoms of Alzheimer's disease (dementia), with tangled nerve fibers often found in their brains.
Lewy body dementia is another synaptic nuclear protein disorder similar to Parkinson's disease, and this similarity is more pronounced in Parkinson's disease patients with accompanying dementia. However, the relationship between these two diseases still needs further research and clarification. They may be seen as two separate diseases, or as a manifestation of one disease in different aspects.

==Symptoms==
Alt=Parkinson's disease patient with hunched body walking in black and white photo, taken from his left side with a chair behind him.
Alt=The French name in the picture is "Catherine Metzger 13 Octobre 1869"
Parkinson's disease causes patients to experience both motor and non motor symptoms, the latter including autonomic nervous system dysfunction, neurological and psychiatric disorders (including emotional, cognitive, behavioral, and thought changes), sensory and sleep disorders, and more. Some non motor symptoms often appear at the time of diagnosis, and may even occur earlier than motor symptoms.

===Motor symptoms===
Parkinson's disease has four main motor symptoms: tremors, stiff limbs, delayed movements, and unstable posture.
Trembling is the most obvious and well-known symptom, with approximately 30% of Parkinson's disease patients not trembling at the beginning of the disease, but as the disease progresses, most patients gradually develop this symptom. The tremors of Parkinson's disease are usually static tremors, which means that the limbs shake most clearly when they are in a stationary state, but the symptoms disappear when sleeping or consciously moving the limbs. Trembling has a significant impact on the distal limbs. At the onset of symptoms, usually only one hand or foot is affected, but later it can spread to both hands and feet. The tremor frequency of Parkinson's disease is between 4-6 hertz, often accompanied by the hand movement of "rubbing pills", where the patient's index finger involuntarily approaches the thumb, causing the two fingers to circle around each other, as if a pharmacist is making pills.
Reduced motor function is another characteristic of Parkinson's disease, where the patient's movements become slower and can affect the entire process from initiation to execution. The patient is unable to perform continuous actions or synchronize different actions. Bradykinisia is a type of motor dysfunction that emphasizes slow movements during the execution of movements, and is a common symptom in the early stages of Parkinson's disease. Patients may initially encounter difficulties in performing fine daily activities such as writing, sewing, or dressing; Clinical evaluation is to make patients perform actions similar to those mentioned above to observe. The impact of bradykinesia varies depending on the type of movement and the patient's physical and mental state. The degree of impact is influenced by the patient's activity level and emotional state, resulting in some patients being severely unable to walk, while others can still ride bicycles. Generally speaking, Parkinson's disease patients can improve symptoms of bradykinesia after treatment.
It is due to the increased muscle tone and continuous muscle contraction of the patient, which leads to difficulty in moving the limbs. The limb stiffness caused by Parkinson's syndrome may be due to lead tube stiffness (resistance fixation) or gear stiffness (resistance not fixed but regular), which may be caused by tremors combined with increased muscle tone. Limb stiffness may also be related to joint pain, which patients often experience in the early stages. Early Parkinson's disease patients often have asymmetrical limb stiffness, which is more common in the neck and shoulders, then spreads to the face and limbs, and eventually spreads throughout the body as the disease progresses, causing the patient to gradually lose their ability to move.
It is a typical symptom of late stage Parkinson's disease, where patients often fall due to loss of balance and often suffer fractures as a result. In the early stages of the disease, there is usually no sign of postural instability, especially in young patients. Up to 40% of patients have fallen due to unstable posture, and 10% fall at least once a week. The number of falls is related to the severity of the condition.
Other motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease include abnormal posture, speech, and swallowing. Patients may develop a panicked gait (accelerating their pace and bending forward while walking) to avoid falling; They may also have difficulty speaking, face masks or writing becoming smaller, and patients may experience various movement problems.

===Neurogenic mental disorders===
Parkinson's disease may lead to mild to severe neuropsychiatric disorders, including confusion in speech, cognition, emotion, behavior, and thinking.
There may be cognitive confusion in the early stages of the disease, sometimes even before the diagnosis of Parkinson's disease, and the prevalence increases with the time of onset. The most common cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease patients is executive difficulty, which can affect their planning, cognitive resilience, abstract thinking, rule understanding, appropriate behavior, working memory, concentration, and other aspects; Other symptoms of cognitive difficulties include inattention, inaccurate perception and estimation of time, and slow cognitive processing. The patient's memory will be affected, especially making it difficult to recall previously learned information; However, providing clues to assist patients in recalling can improve related symptoms. Losing spatial awareness is another possible symptom, and the test will require patients to recognize facial expressions and the direction of drawing lines to determine whether they have such obstacles.
The risk of dementia in Parkinson's disease patients is about 2-6 times that of the general population, and the incidence increases with the time of onset. Dementia reduces the quality of life for patients and caregivers, increases mortality rates, and increases the likelihood of requiring hospitalization in nursing homes.
Compared to the general population, Parkinson's disease patients without cognitive impairment are more likely to have behavioral and emotional disorders, and these patients usually do not have dementia. The most common emotional disorders are depression, apathy, and anxiety. However, Parkinson's disease patients often experience symptoms such as dementia, reduced facial expressions, decreased motor function, apathy, and difficulty speaking, making the diagnosis of emotional disorders more complex. Parkinson's disease patients may also exhibit impulse control behaviors such as drug abuse and addiction, binge eating, hypersexuality, or gambling addiction, which may be related to the medication used for treatment. About 4% of Parkinson's disease patients suffer from sensory disorders such as hallucinations or delusions, which are generally believed to be the result of excessive dopamine during treatment. Therefore, patients who have been ill for a long time or take more L-dopa are more likely to experience these symptoms.

===Other symptoms===
Sleep disorders are also a possible symptom of Parkinson's disease, and medications used for treatment may worsen related issues. Patients may experience symptoms such as drowsiness, interruption of rapid eye movement, insomnia, etc. A systematic review report shows that 13.0% of Parkinson's disease patients taking dopamine drugs have sleep problems.
Changes in the autonomic nervous system may lead to postural hypotension, oily skin, excessive sweating, urinary incontinence, and sexual dysfunction. Patients may also experience severe constipation and abnormal gastrointestinal motility, causing extreme discomfort and endangering their health. Parkinson's disease is also associated with some eye diseases and visual abnormalities, including reduced blink frequency, dry eye syndrome, eye tracking disorders, jumping vision (both eyes jumping in the same direction due to the influence of autonomic nerves), inability to gaze upwards, blurred vision, and diplopia. Sensory problems may manifest as loss of smell, loss of pain sensation, and sensory abnormalities (such as skin irritation and numbness). All of the above autonomic and sensory symptoms may occur one year before diagnosis.

==Cause of illness==
The etiology of most Parkinson's disease patients is unknown, and only a small portion can be attributed to genetic factors. Other risk factors may also be associated with Parkinson's disease, but the causal relationship has not been confirmed yet.

===Environmental factors===
During the Vietnam War, American helicopters sprayed Agent Orange over Vietnamese farmland.
Some environmental factors may increase the risk of developing Parkinson's disease, including pesticides, head trauma, farming, or living in rural areas. The environment and drinking water in the suburbs are more likely to be exposed to pesticides, which indirectly affects people's risk of disease.
Substances related to Parkinson's disease include insecticides, chlorpyrifos, organic chlorides, pesticides (such as fisetin and paraquat), and herbicides (such as Agent Orange and Fumezhen). Due to the possibility of heavy metals accumulating in the substantia nigra of the midbrain, it is also suspected to be a risk factor, but there is currently no conclusive research.

===Genetic factors===
The structure of Parkin protein crystals
Traditionally, Parkinson's disease is not considered a hereditary disease, but 15% of patients have relatives within their first degree of family (including parents, children, and siblings) who suffer from Parkinson's disease. It is known that at least 5% of Parkinson's disease is caused by one or more specific gene mutations.
It has been confirmed that specific gene mutations can cause Parkinson's disease, and the proteins encoded by these genes include alpha synuclein (SNCA), Parkin protein (PRKN), PARK8 (LRRK2, also known as tremor), PTEN induced kinase (PINK1), DJ-1, and ATP13A2. Besides LRRK2, people with these mutations typically develop Parkinson's disease; However, LRRK2 mutations only cause a small percentage of people to become ill. SNCA and LRRK2 are currently the most extensively studied genes related to Parkinson's disease, and mutations in SNCA, LRRK2, and glucocorticoids (GBA) increase the risk of developing episodic Parkinson's disease; GBA mutations can cause Gaucher's disease. Researchers have used whole genome association analysis to search for mutant alleles with low penetrance in sporadic Parkinson's disease, and have obtained many positive results so far.
Due to the fact that alpha synuclein is a component of the Lewy body, the SNCA gene is important for Parkinson's disease. Alpha synuclein can induce mutations in the ATM gene, which is an important kinase for repairing DNA damage. Alpha synuclein also has the function of activating non homologous terminal junction DNA repair. If deposited to form Lewy bodies, it will reduce its DNA repair ability and may be associated with brain cell death in Parkinson's disease.
The SCNA gene in patients with familial Parkinson's disease may undergo missense mutations (single nucleotide changes causing amino acid changes), double or triple repeats; Mismeaning mutations are rare; But about 2% of familial Parkinson's disease patients are caused by gene duplication. SNCA gene mutations can also be found in some Parkinson's disease carriers, but they do not develop due to insufficient penetrance or age.
The protein encoded by the LRRK2 gene is called tremor, and since this gene was first discovered in families in England and Northern Spain, its English name "dardarin" comes from the Basque word for "tremor". LRRK2 gene mutation is the most common known cause of familial and sporadic Parkinson's disease, accounting for 5% of patients with a family history and 3% of sporadic patients. There are many types of mutations, but currently only a few have been confirmed to cause the disease.
Some Parkinson's disease-related genes are involved in the digestive function of lysosomes, so some studies speculate that Parkinson's disease may be related to lysosomal dysfunction, which prevents cells from breaking down alpha synuclein.

==Pathology==
Lewy bodies (brown structures) in the substantia nigra of Parkinson's disease patients. This sample was subjected to immunohistochemical staining for alpha synuclein| Alt=Blue stained cells are brain nerve cells, with the largest cell containing brown Lewy body structures, accounting for 40% of the total cell diameter.

===Anatomy and Anatomy===
The main pathological changes of Parkinson's disease occur in the dense part of the ventral substantia nigra of the midbrain. This area contains a large number of dopamine neurons and transmits them to the basal ganglia of the brain. Patients with this disease experience a significant loss of dense neurons, with some even losing up to 70% of their neurons.
Generally speaking, the locus coeruleus and substantia nigra of normal individuals are darker in color because the cells in this area produce neuromelanin. The locus coeruleus and substantia nigra of Parkinson's disease patients appear lighter due to the massive death of neurons. Microscopic case changes can be observed to reduce the number of neurons in the substantia nigra and the presence of Lewy bodies in residual cells; At the same time, astrocytes die along with neurons, while microglia are activated to clear cell debris. Among them, Lewy body is the most distinctive pathological feature of Parkinson's disease.

===Pathophysiology===
Voxel based morphometry, a study comparing neurological imaging of Parkinson's disease patients and non patients, concluded that brainstem injury may be the earliest detectable neurological lesion in Parkinson's disease| alt=Composite of three images, one in top row (referred to in caption as A), two in second row (referred to as B). Top shows a mid-line sagittal plane of the brainstem and cerebellum. There are three circles superimposed along the brainstem and an arrow linking them from bottom to top and continuing upward and forward towards the frontal lobes of the brain. A line of text accompanies each circle: lower is "1. Dorsal Motor X Nucleus", middle is "2. Gain Setting Nuclei" and upper is "3. Substantia Nigra/Amygdala". The fourth line of text above the others says "4. ...". The two images at the bottom of the composite are magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans, one sagittal and the other transverse,  centred at the same brain coordinates (x=-1, y=-36, z=-49). A colored blob marking volume reduction covers most of the brainstem.
The main symptoms of Parkinson's disease are mostly caused by the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta.
The pathways connecting the basal ganglia of the brain to the outside world can be roughly divided into five based on their projection positions, namely the motor circuit, oculomotor circuit, corticospinal circuit, limbic system circuit, and orbitofrontal cortex circuit. Due to Parkinson's disease affecting the transmission of information upstream of the basal ganglia, all of the aforementioned circuits are affected, leading to motor, attention, and learning impairments in Parkinson's patients. At present, the impact of this disease on the motor circuit has been studied most thoroughly.
In 1980, the theoretical prototype of the motor circuit and its association with Parkinson's disease were proposed, which had a great impact on the scientific community at that time. Although it was later discovered that the model could not explain certain phenomena, some modifications were made. In this model, the basal ganglia are responsible for inhibiting the motor system to avoid its activation at inappropriate times. When the brain determines to perform a certain action, the basal ganglia reduce inhibitory signals, allowing the action to proceed smoothly. Dopamine can inhibit inhibitory signals from the basal ganglia, so when dopamine concentration is high, it can promote the smooth occurrence of motor commands, while when dopamine concentration is low, motor commands will be inhibited by the basal ganglia. Parkinson's disease patients have lower levels of central nervous system dopamine, resulting in decreased motor function. Based on this theory, drugs that increase dopamine concentration are often used in drug therapy, but this result often leads to the activation of the motor system at inappropriate times, causing the body to produce involuntary movements.

===Neuronal death in the brain===
The cause of dopamine neuron death in Parkinson's disease is currently inconclusive. Some theories suggest that it is due to the accumulation of alpha synuclein in patients, which binds to ubiquitin and causes cell damage. These insoluble proteins then deposit in the cell body, forming Lewy bodies. According to the Braque staging, Lewy's experience first appears in the olfactory bulb, medulla oblongata, and pontine tegmental area, and patients at this stage have not yet shown obvious symptoms. As the disease progresses, Lewy bodies appear in the substantia nigra of the midbrain and the basal forebrain, and finally in the neocortex, which is also the main brain area affected by the patient. However, some people believe that Lewy bodies may not necessarily cause cell death and may even be a protective protein. Lewy bodies are also commonly present in the cerebral cortex of dementia patients, but features of Alzheimer's disease such as nerve fiber entanglement and age spots only appear in dementia patients.
Proteasome inactivation, lysosome inactivation, and decreased mitochondrial activity are also mechanisms that cause cell death. The ion accumulation of midbrain substantia nigra cells is often accompanied by protein inclusion bodies, which may be related to oxidative stress, protein aggregation, and neuronal cell death, but the exact mechanism is still unclear.

==Diagnosis==
Fluorinated deoxyglucose (18F, FDG) positron emission tomography of a healthy brain. Hot zones indicate high glucose uptake, and the condition of the basal ganglia can help diagnose Parkinson's disease.
alt=Sagittal PET scan at the level of the striatum. Hottest areas are the cortical grey matter and the striatum.
The diagnosis of Parkinson's disease relies on medical history and neurological examination. Currently, there is no effective diagnostic method to confirm Parkinson's disease, but brain imaging can sometimes rule out other diseases with similar symptoms. The improvement in motor symptoms after taking L-dopa can help physicians confirm that the patient is indeed suffering from Parkinson's disease. If Lewy bodies can be found in the midbrain during autopsy, it can prove that the patient had Parkinson's disease before death. As the disease progresses, sometimes symptoms that are not Parkinson's disease may naturally appear, and doctors can rule out the possibility of Parkinson's disease. Therefore, some authoritative guidelines suggest that doctors must regularly re-examine the diagnosis of Parkinson's disease patients.
Other diseases may indirectly cause Parkinson's syndrome, including Alzheimer's disease, multiple cerebral infarctions, and drug-induced conditions. Parkinson's syndrome with additional symptoms (such as progressive supranuclear palsy and multiple system degeneration) must be excluded through differential diagnosis. Anti Parkinson's drugs are usually ineffective against Parkinson's syndrome. If a patient has a rapid course of disease, early cognitive difficulties, postural instability, mild tremors, or symptoms on both sides, it indicates that they may have Parkinson's syndrome, rather than just Parkinson's disease. Hereditary Parkinson's syndrome is usually classified as Parkinson's disease, but the terms familial Parkinson's disease and familial Parkinson's syndrome can both be used to refer to this condition.
Medical institutions have established diagnostic criteria for Parkinson's disease to simplify and standardize the process, which is particularly useful in the early stages of the disease. The most well-known of these are the Brain Bank of the Parkinson's Association in the UK and the National Center for Neurological Disorders and Stroke in the United States. The Brain Bank defines bradykinesia as a diagnostic requirement for Parkinson's disease patients, with at least one symptom of limb stiffness, static tremors, or postural instability, and excludes the possibility of other diseases; As the course of the disease progresses, the patient's symptoms must also have the following characteristics: unilateral onset, static tremors, disease progression over time, asymmetric motor symptoms, response to L-dopa treatment for at least five years, clinical course of at least ten years, and difficulty in movement caused by excessive use of L-dopa. According to the evaluation of pathological anatomy, the accuracy of the above diagnostic conditions is about 75-90%, and the diagnosis made by experts such as neurologists has a higher accuracy rate.
Computer tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain in Parkinson's disease patients often appear indistinguishable from normal individuals, but these techniques can be used to rule out other indirect causes of Parkinson's syndrome, such as basal ganglia tumors, vascular lesions, and cerebral edema. There are reports that diffusion magnetic resonance imaging (a type of magnetic resonance imaging technique) can help distinguish between typical and atypical Parkinson's syndrome, but its exact diagnostic power is still under study. The dopamine function of the basal ganglia can be measured through radioimaging techniques such as positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), such as iodine-123 (trade name DaTSCAN) and RTI-55 (Dopascan) used in SPECT, as well as fluorodeoxyglucose and DTBZ used in PET. Reduced dopamine activity in the basal ganglia can also assist in the diagnosis of Parkinson's disease.

==Prevention==
Middle aged exercise can help reduce the risk of developing Parkinson's disease in the future. People who drink more caffeinated beverages have a significantly lower risk of getting sick, and caffeine seems to play a protective role in it. Although smoking can cause negative health effects, reduce lifespan and quality of life, it may reduce the risk of developing Parkinson's disease. The mechanism behind this is still unclear, but it may be related to nicotine stimulating dopamine function; In addition, cigarettes also contain some compounds that can act as monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOs), which may also be the reason for this effect.
Antioxidants such as vitamin C and D are believed to protect brain cells from Parkinson's disease, but research has not yielded positive results. Research on fats and fatty acids also lacks consistent conclusions, with some studies showing that they have protective effects and can reduce the risk of disease; But some displays have no effect. In addition, preliminary research suggests that estrogen and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs may also have protective effects.

==Treatment==
At present, there is no developed method that can completely cure Parkinson's disease, but there are some drugs, surgeries, and interdisciplinary integrated treatments that can alleviate symptoms. Medications for treating motor symptoms include L-dopa, dopamine receptor agonists, and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. As for which medication to choose, it depends on the condition of the disease. Generally speaking, in the early stages of symptoms, the latter two types of drugs mentioned above are used for treatment to avoid L-dopa related side effects. L-dopa will only be used when the symptoms become stronger in the later stages of symptoms. During this period, attention should be paid to the harm of dose fluctuations to patients, and increasing or decreasing the dose can only be carried out under the prescription of a physician. When drug therapy is unable to control symptoms, deep brain stimulation surgery can be considered. At the end of the illness, it is recommended to enter palliative care to maintain the patient's quality of life.

===L-dopa===
Levodopa is the most widely used drug in the past 30 years. This product will be converted into dopamine through aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase in dopaminergic neurons, temporarily alleviating the motor symptoms of the disease.
However, only about 5-10% of L-dopa penetrates the blood-brain barrier, and residual drugs are metabolized into dopamine, causing side effects such as nausea, dyskinesia, and joint stiffness. Therefore, this product is generally used in combination with dopa decarboxylase inhibitors such as carbidopa or benzerazide to inhibit the production of dopamine in surrounding tissues, thereby improving bioavailability and reducing side effects. The existing pharmaceutical factories produce compound drugs by combining carbidopa with L-dopa or phenylhydrazine with L-dopa. L-dopa is addictive and may cause certain repetitive behaviors, which are drug-induced symptoms known as dopamine disorder syndrome.
L-dopa is easily degraded by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) in the body, so this product can be used in combination with the COMT inhibitor tocapene to maintain its efficacy. However, COMT inhibitors have hepatotoxicity, so caution must be taken when using them, and the less hepatotoxic Entacapone can also be used as a substitute. At present, approved drugs include single products of tocapene or entecavine, as well as compound drugs containing L-dopa and carbidopa.
另外，用药时的剂量波动会对患者生活造成严重影响。患者刚用药时，体内剂量较高，因此患者的症状较和缓，此时称为「通电状态」（"on" state）；反之，在药效降低后，患者的运动性症状又会出现，此时称为「断电状态」（"off" state）。过高剂量的L-多巴会使患者产生异动症，无限制提高药物剂量并非将药物浓度控制于「通电状态」的方法。因此须以其他方法延长药物在体内滞留的时间，方法包含合并使用多巴胺受体激动剂及MAO-B受体抑制剂。以往医师会借由暂时停用L-多巴以减少运动性症状，但该作法可能导致抗精神病药物恶性症候群等致命性的副作用，所以现在已不再使用。目前有厂商发展出静脉内及肠道内的缓释技术，让L-多巴稳定缓慢释放。研究显示缓释剂比起传统剂型能有效减少异动症的情形。大多数患者终身必须服用L-多巴，且一般日后皆会遇到本品的运动性副作用。

===多巴胺受体激动剂===
除了L-多巴之外，还有数种多巴胺受体激动剂也能与突触后的多巴胺受体结合，借此达到治疗的效果。此类药品最初应用于改善患者使用L-多巴后的副作用，现在则大多用于延缓初期运动性症状的治疗，症状后期使用本品则能改善「断电状态」（"off" state）的症状。属于多巴胺受体激动剂的药物包含溴隐亭、培高利特、普拉克索、力必平、过乳降、阿朴吗啡和麦角乙脲。
多巴胺受体激动剂可能造成或重或轻的副作用，包含昏睡、幻觉、失眠、恶心和便秘等。有些患者即使剂量极轻也会产生副作用，此时建议医生考虑更换药品。多巴胺受体激动剂可以延缓运动性症状的产生，虽药效不如L-多巴那样强，但足以控制初期症状。此类药物价格一般较L-多巴为高。年轻患者服用本类药物通常较少产生异动症，副作用会随年龄越大而增加。本类药物通常用于治疗初期症状，以延缓L-多巴的使用。它产生的冲动控制障碍较L-多巴强，患者可能会出现病态性的暴食、性冲动、赌博和购物等现象。
可用于减缓病程晚期的断电状态症状及异动症现象，能选用的给药途径包括间歇性注射和皮下持续输注。由于意识混乱和幻觉等副作用相当常见，接受阿朴吗啡治疗的病患状况必须严密监控。麦角乙脲和罗替戈汀是两种借由皮肤贴片给药的多巴胺激动剂，它们不仅对早期患者很有用，也可能可以控制严重患者断电状态下的病情。

===单胺氧化酶抑制剂===
单胺氧化酶抑制剂包括有safinamide、selegiline和雷沙吉兰，此类药品能借由抑制monoamine oxidase B（MAO-B）增加基底核的多巴胺含量，多巴胺神经元分泌的MAO-B会降解多巴胺，因此MAO-B活性降低将能使纹状体（基底核的一部分）L-多巴含量增加。就如同多巴胺受体激动剂一样，单用单胺氧化酶抑制剂治疗患者能改善运动症状，并延迟早期患者需要服用L-多巴的时间，但它比多巴胺受体激动剂有更多副作用，且效果也不如L-多巴。虽然有研究指出单胺氧化酶抑制剂能减少严重患者的病情在「断电」（"off" state）和「通电」（"on" state）状态之间波动，但针对较晚期患者的单胺氧化酶抑制剂研究却不多。目前一项初步结果显示希利治林和L-多巴复方可能会导致死亡率增加，但还有待进一步证实。

===其他药物===
其他药物如金刚烷胺和抗胆碱剂在治疗运动症状方面可能有用，然而相关的研究证据品质不佳，因此不是治疗的首选。除了运动症状之外，帕金森氏症也常伴随多样的症状，许多药物因此用来解决这些问题，例如喹硫平用来治疗精神疾患；胆碱酯酶抑制剂能治疗失智；莫达非尼则用来治疗excessive daytime sleepiness。2010的一项后设分析研究发现非类固醇消炎止痛药（除了阿司匹林）使用者的帕金森氏症发生率比一般人少15%，长期使用者降低的比率更多。

===手术===
stereotactic surgery。
使用手术治疗运动症状一度很常见，但自从L-多巴发现后，接受手术的患者大幅减少。过去数十年来的研究使外科技术进步良多，于是较严重且药物治疗无效的患者又重新将手术列入考量。帕金森氏症的手术可分为两大类：烧灼术和脑深层刺激手术（DBS），手术的目标包括视丘、globus pallidus或视丘下核。脑深层刺激手术于1980年代由Alim-Louis Benabid等人发展出来，是目前最常使用的手术治疗方式，手术将一个neurostimulator置入脑中，刺激器再以电冲动刺激特定脑区。一般会推荐运动症状时好时坏而呈反复波动的病人接受脑深层刺激手术，对于药物控制不佳或无法接受药物的颤抖病人也很适合，只要他们没有严重的精神问题。另一种较少见的手术方式是破坏特定的区域以压制皮质下区的过度表现，例如pallidotomy就是将苍白球破坏以舒缓运动困难。

===复健===
医师通常会建议帕金森氏症患者执行运动计划，部分证据指出说话或运动问题能透过复健改善，虽然这方面的研究不多且品质不齐。规律的体能锻炼有益于患者维持或改善运动能力、灵活度、力气、行走速度和生活品质，体能锻炼也可以搭配物理治疗。有证据显示在物理治疗师的指导下，患者的运动症状、情绪知能、日常活动和生活品质能比自行在家训练者有更显著的改善。对想改善动作灵活度的肢体僵硬患者来说，一般的放松技巧（如轻微摆动肢体）就能减少肌肉过度紧张，其他促进肌肉放松的技巧还包括缓慢的旋转四肢或躯干、节律启动、腹式呼吸和冥想。至于如运动减缓、曳步、走路时手不摆动等步姿问题则有多种策略能改善患者的运动功能和安全性，此类的复健计划著重但不限于改善患者的步型速度、下肢支撑、跨步距离和肢体摆动，具体策略包括使用辅助器材（如北欧式健走或踏步机训练）、口语（手法、听觉或视觉）引导、运动（踏步或PNF伸展）和环境改造。伸展运动有助于改善原发性肌无力以及轻中度帕金森氏症患者的动作和力量。报告显示，患者的肌力和服药时间有明显的相关性。因此，帕金森氏症患者应在服药后45分钟至一个小时左右身体状态最好的时候运动。此外，由于较严重的帕金森氏患者躯体前弯且呼吸系统失能，腹式深呼吸运动有助于强化胸腔壁的运动能力和肺活量。运动也有助于改善便秘问题。
在言语治疗方面，最常用的方法之一为李·西弗曼语音治疗（LVST），此类治疗对于患者的口语表达有所帮助。职能治疗方面则是以改善患者健康及生活品质为目标，协助患者恢复最大量的日常生活活动。虽然有文献指出职能治疗可以改善运动技巧，并有助于提升患者在治疗期间的生活品质，但有关职能治疗对于帕金森氏症患者的效果研究很少，且品质大多不佳。

===缓和医疗===
缓和医疗是给严重疾病患者的特殊医疗照护，当中也包括了帕金森氏症。缓和医疗以提升患者和其家属的生活品质为目的，透过各种方式让患者能免于疾病所带来的症状、痛苦和压力。由于帕金森氏症无法治愈，所有医疗行为的目标都是要减缓病程并改善患者生活品质，因此这些治疗本身就有缓和医疗的意味。
帕金森氏症患者应及早接受缓和医疗，而非等恶化后才治疗。缓和治疗师能协助患者减轻身体症状和情绪方面的问题，包括身体功能低落而导致失业、忧郁、恐惧或存在意义上的担忧。
给予情绪支持的同时，缓和医疗也担负著向患者和家属说明治疗目标的任务。随著病程进展，帕金森氏症的患者可能会面临困难的抉择，例如是否插feeding tube、或执行气切，或是要不要做心肺复苏术，以及何时该进安宁病房。缓和医疗团队能够协助回答这些问题，并在复杂的医疗资讯和情绪问题间给予患者指引，帮助患者做出最佳的选择。

===其他治疗===
控制消化系统的神经和肌肉也可能受到帕金森氏症的影响，导致便秘和gastroparesis（即胃下垂，指食物停留在胃内较长时间）。借由定期营养评估制订均衡的饮食能避免患者体重减少，并使肠胃道功能减退造成的影响降到最低。当疾病更形严重后，也可能出现吞咽困难的症状，在用餐时添加thickening agent并把身体挺直或许有助于进食，同时能减少噎到的风险。对于更严重的患者可能会采用Gastrostomy，直接将食物送到患者的胃中。
L-多巴和蛋白质使用同一套运输系统穿越肠壁和血脑障壁，因此会彼此竞争，当两者同时出现时，便会减少药物的效用。因此，服用L-多巴的患者不应该摄取高蛋白饮食，较推荐的饮食种类则是地中海饮食。在疾病较为严重的时候，基于相同的原因，也会建议患者摄取低蛋白饮食。为了减少蛋白质造成的交互作用，患者必须在餐前30分钟服用L-多巴。同时，给帕金森氏症患者的处方也会限制患者早餐和午餐的蛋白质摄取，让蛋白质尽量在晚上吸收。
（rTMS）能暂时改善L-多巴造成的运动困难，但其效用仍在研究当中，近期也有研究显示rTMS没有效果。数种营养素被认为有治疗潜力，但目前仍无证据显示维生素或其他食品添加剂能改善症状。此外，目前也无证据证明针灸、气功或太极拳对疾病的进程或症状有任何效果，太极拳是否能改善患者的平衡或运动能力仍有待进一步的研究。蚕豆和刺毛黧豆是帕金森氏症患者补充L-多巴的天然来源，虽然它们在临床试验当中已经展现出了一定的效果，但摄取此类食物也有对应的风险，如产生neuroleptic malignant syndrome等可能危及生命的副作用。

==预后==
以失能调整生命年估量全球各国因帕金森氏症造成的负担（2004年，数值以每100,000居民为单位）
统一帕金森氏症评定量表（UPDRS）是最常用来评估帕金森氏症严重程度的方法，但由于此量表有较不重视运动以外症状的限制，因此现在更倾向使用由此量表改良过的MDS-UPDRS。宏恩亚尔分级表则是一种较旧的评估方法（最初于1967年发表），它将帕金森氏症的进程分为五个阶段。
若没有接受治疗，患者的运动症状在早期进展得很快，但后来则会趋缓。一般患者在发病八年后会失去独立步行的能力，并需卧病在床。虽然现在不太容易找到没有接受过治疗的人，医疗已经改善了运动症候群的预后，但与此同时，长期使用L-多巴造成的副作用也导致一些病患出现运动障碍。使用L-多巴的人，从症状开始出现到需要高度依赖照护的时间可能超过15年。目前还是难以预测单一病例的疾病进程，年龄是预测帕金森氏症进程最好的指标；在诊断出帕金森氏症时运动症状较轻微的病患，之后的功能减退也会比较少；认知功能障碍则在70岁以上才发病的老人中较为普遍。
由于现在的治疗已经大幅改善运动问题，目前疾病造成的障碍大多显现在运动以外的症状。然而，疾病的进程与功能减退程度呈非线性关系，患者的症状一开始通常是运动症状，随著疾病进展，药物疗效较差的运动症状和药物导致的并发症会更加明显，前者包括吞咽、言语困难和步态不稳等平衡性问题；后者则常发生在使用L-多巴的患者，使用L-多巴超过五年的患者有一半以上会产生并发症。发病十年后，大多数的帕金森氏症患者最终会出现自律神经疾患、睡眠障碍、认知功能减退等问题，这些症状（尤其是认知功能减退）是造成患者残障的主因。
帕金森氏症患者的预期寿命较一般人短，死亡率大约是其他人的两倍，造成患者死亡的风险因子包括认知功能减退和失智、吞咽障碍、老年发病和较严重的疾病状态。另一方面，以颤抖为主要症状的患者较肢体僵硬为主的患者有更高的存活率。帕金森氏症患者因吸入性肺炎导致死亡的机率也大约是健康人的两倍。
1990年时，帕金森氏症造成约44,000名患者死亡；到了2013年，死亡人数则成长到103,000人，这段时间，死亡率由每十万人1.5例增加到了1.8例。

==流行病学==
32-47-811-1218-3663-109
帕金森氏症为继阿兹海默症之后，第二常见的神经退行性疾病。全球罹患帕金森氏症的患者约有700万人，其中美国就占了约100万人。在工业化国家中，本疾病的盛行率约为0.3%，且患者主要集中于高龄人口。60岁以上每增加一岁，盛行率便提高1%；80岁以上则每增加一岁就增加4%。帕金森氏症的平均发病年龄约为60岁，但有5–10%患者属于早发型帕金森氏症（young onset PD，YOPD），此类患者会在20至50岁间发病。有研究显示帕金森氏症在非裔及亚裔的盛行率较低，但此结果仍有争议。也有研究认为男性的罹病率较女性高，但有些研究不支持这个结果。帕金森氏症的发生率约介于每年每十万人8至18人之间。
许多危险因子与保护因子都已发现，有些与目前推测的致病机转有关，无论如何，目前还没有任何一个因子与临床反应的关联性获得证实。虽然有数项研究试图阐明帕金森氏症与某些因子之间的关系，然而研究设计上多有瑕疵，且有些结果互相抵触。目前结果一致性最高的两项因子分别是暴露于杀虫剂会提升风险，而吸烟则会减低风险。

==历史==
让-马丁·沙可（图）为纪念詹姆士·帕金森，将疾病定名为「帕金森氏症」。沙可对于帕金森氏症的研究有重大贡献。
早在远古时代就有相关文献纪载类似帕金森氏症的症状。印度医书《阿育吠陀》中，有纪录一种名为「坎帕吠陀」（kampavata）的疾病，就描述了类似帕金森氏症的症状，包含颤抖及运动困难等。书中还提到可用刺毛黧豆治疗，后续研究发现其植物体内含有L-多巴的成分。
其他文献，如古埃及草纸文献、中国最古老的医书《黄帝内经》、《圣经》和盖伦的著作都有描述类似的症状。但自盖伦之后则未见类似的症状纪录，直到17至18世纪开始，西尔维斯、高比乌斯、亨特及肖梅尔等人才又纪录了该疾病的相关资讯。
1817年，英国医师詹姆斯·帕金森在其论文《论震颤性麻痺》（An Essay on the Shaking Palsy）中纪录了六个震颤性麻痺的病例。帕金森在文中描述了帕金森氏症的典型症状，包含静止性颤抖、步态及姿势异常、肢体僵硬、肌力退化等等，并记录了疾病的进程。之后特鲁索、高尔斯、威尔森和欧勃等人又更深入研究该病。在该病的早期研究者中，最知名的当属让-马丁·沙可，他在1868年至1881年间详细研究该疾病，留下不可磨灭的贡献，并将该疾病定名为「帕金森氏症」，以纪念詹姆士·帕金森医师；除此之外，他也给出了肌肉僵硬（rigidity）、无力（weakness）和动作迟缓（bradykinesia）的明确定义以兹区别。
1912年，弗德里克·路易在观察病变脑神经组织后，发现显微镜下的组织可看到一种特殊颗粒状构造，后人因此将其命名为路易氏体。1919年，康士坦丁·特列季亚科夫发现患者主要受损的区域为中脑的黑质，然而当时该发现并未受到重视。直到1938年，洛夫·海瑟勒在其进一步的研究著作中证实了该发现，特氏的发现才为人们接受。1950年代，阿尔维德·卡尔森和奥莱·霍尼克维兹分别深入研究了多巴胺的神经传讯功能及对帕金森氏症的影响，使人们对于该疾病的生化机转有了更充分的了解。1997年，斯皮兰蒂尼、特罗扬沃斯基和高德等人发现了路易氏体的主要成分为α-突触核蛋白。
在L-多巴问世之前，治疗以给予抗胆碱类药物及手术（破坏部分锥体束及基底核构造）为主。1911年，卡西米尔·冯克首次合成L-多巴，但在20世纪中叶以前并没受到重视。1967年，L-多巴成为帕金森氏症的临床用药，迅速取代了旧有的疗法。1980年代，法国科学家阿里姆·路易斯·本纳比等人发展了脑深层刺激手术，为帕金森氏症的治疗带来新的研究方向及可能性。

==社会与文化==

===社会支出===
「认知帕金森」（"Parkinson's awareness"）活动的标志，标志中央为一朵红色郁金香。
帕金森氏症带来庞大的社会成本，实际金额因方法问题及国别差异而难以计算。英国每年花费于帕金森氏症的金额估计在4.49亿至33亿英镑之间；美国则约为230亿美元，平均每名病患每年花费约1万美元，其中最大一部份用于住院治疗和护理之家，其次则为药物花费。2006年中国上海的统计指出当地每名帕金森氏症患者每年平均花费7679人民币，这个数目是当地平均所得的一半，其中最大的开销来自药物花费。除了直接成本外，帕金森氏症也带来巨额的间接成本，例如患者的生产力下降，并连带加重照顾者的劳力与经济负担，且影响到双方的生活品质。

===倡议===
为提升公众对于该疾病的重视，欧洲帕金森氏症协会将詹姆士·帕金森的生日（4月11日）订为每年的世界帕金森日（World Parkinson's Day）。2005年，国际组织将红色郁金香选为本疾病的象征，原因是一位荷兰的园艺家威尔德（J.W.S. Van der Wereld）将其于1981年培育出来的栽培品种命名为「詹姆士·帕金森郁金香」。美国帕金森基金会自1982年起每年提供1.8亿美元，赞助帕金森氏症相关的照护、研究及服务。帕金森氏症基金会由威廉·布拉克（William Black）在1957年所创办，自成立以来已捐助了1.15亿美元于相关研究、5000万美元于教育及推广计划。其他还包含1961年成立的美国帕金森氏症协会，以及1992年成立的欧洲帕金森氏症协会。

===著名病例===
在达沃斯世界经济论坛上的穆罕默德·阿里，时年64岁。阿里从38岁起即有帕金森氏症的症状，直至其逝世。
演员迈克尔·J·福克斯在罹患帕金森氏症后，引起公众对此疾病的重视。福克斯在确诊后，选择面对疾病，甚至在不服药的情形下，于公共节目演出，真实呈现疾病的影响。他还写了两部自传，叙述其对抗此病的历程。此外，福克斯还曾在不服药的情形下于美国国会内说明疾病的影响，并成立迈克尔·J·福克斯基金会，以寻找治愈帕金森氏症的方法。卡罗琳学院为肯定福克斯于帕金森氏症研究上的支持与贡献，颁予他名誉医学博士学位。
曾获奥林匹克铜牌的自行车手戴维斯·菲尼于40岁时发现有青年帕金森氏症。于是菲尼于2004年创办了戴维斯·菲尼基金会，资助提升患者生活品质的相关研究。
穆罕默德·阿里于38岁时出现帕金森氏症的症状，但迟至42岁才确诊，有「全世界最知名的帕金森氏症患者」之称。但阿里罹患的是帕金森氏症还是拳击手型失智症，迄今仍未有定论。

==研究==
近期帕金森氏症新疗法的进展很有限，目前的研究方向包括寻找新的模式生物、开发基因治疗、干细胞移植和neuroprotective性物质。

===模式动物===
目前仅发现一例罹患自发性帕金森氏症的动物（食蟹猴）。研究上常用具有某些特性的动物作为模式动物。诱发实验动物产生帕金森氏症候群的技术来自于一场意外。1980年代，一批服用鸦片剂「MPPP」的药瘾者产生了帕金森氏症候群的征象，经追查发现后发现这些药物受到另一种化学物质MPTP的污染，从此之后，MPTP成为了实验室用来诱发实验动物产生帕金森氏症候群的药物。除了MPTP以外，有些毒物如用作杀虫剂的鱼藤酮、杀草剂百草枯和杀真菌剂锰乃浦也有类似的效果，这类毒素诱发模式通常用于灵长类动物实验上。目前也发展出可诱发不同症状的转殖囓齿类模式。从黑质注射神经毒素6-hydroxydopamine（6-OHDA）可专一地摧毁黑质纹状体路径的多巴胺神经元。

===基因疗法===
一般基因疗法的概念是利用非感染性的病毒（如腺联合病毒）作为载体将基因片段送入目标细胞中。这些基因可以协助制造改善帕金森氏症的酵素，使大脑免受伤害。迄2010年，全球有四个帕金森氏症案例用基因疗法治疗，但治疗的副作用及效果仍有待观察。其中一个试验者在2011年的论文中表示有改善，但一同试验的药厂Neurologix已在2012年3月宣告破产。

===神经保护疗法===
GDNF（如图示）被认为可保护帕金森氏症患者的神经，但其效果尚未证实。
目前是帕金森氏症相关研究中最尖端的题材之一，目前已报导数种化学物质有治疗潜力，但尚未证实有任何物质能减缓退化。现今仍有研究的物质包括抗细胞凋亡物质（omigapil、CEP-1347）、抗谷胺酸药物、单胺氧化酶抑制剂（希利治林、雷沙吉兰）、促线粒体生物能转换剂（辅酶Q10、肌酸）、钙离子通道阻滞剂（艾雷待平）和生长因子（GDNF）等。也有研究以α-突触核蛋白作为治疗标靶，针对α-突触核蛋白的疫苗PD01A现在已进入人体临床试验。

===神经移植===
自1980年代初期，已经有多人尝试将胎儿、猪、颈动脉或视网膜组织移植到黑质，以期修复黑质与大脑间的神经联系。虽然有初步证据显示移植中脑的多巴胺神经元可能有效，但双盲试验目前仍显示无长期效益。此外，移植组织可能会释放过量的多巴胺，造成肌张力障碍。干细胞移植为现今研究焦点，因为干细胞方便操作，且在猴子与啮齿类身上的实验显示动物不但能成功存活，还能减少行为异常。然而，胚胎干细胞的使用迄今仍有相当争议存在，因此可能会朝向使用争议较小的诱导性多功能干细胞（iPS）研究。

==参考文献==

== 外部连结 ==
* 帕金森氏症
*  帕金森氏症：研究带来的希望（美国国家神经与中风疾病研究院）en
*  帕金森氏症遗传关联研究资料库（PDGENE）en
